chapter one page one opens with some
jargon that might be a little bit
difficult for a 21st century reader to
understand but the image being evoked
would have been immediately meaningful
to the readers alive when this was first
published during Cole Marx's own
lifetime opens with the words the
history of all hitherto existing
societies is the history of class
struggle Freeman and slave patrician and
plebeian and plebeian
what does class struggle mean I think
it's very difficult for people now in
the year 2019 to understand the
intensity and the gravity that the study
of Latin brought to Europe in the late
18th century and then throughout the
whole of the nineteenth century why is
the city of Cincinnati called Cincinnati
look into it you know the the men who
fought in the American Revolution and
established United States of America
they studied intensely and really
responded to even the kind of smallest
details of the political history of
Athens and Rome and some of them were
more interested in the social model
offered by Athens and some who more
interested in Rome
likewise in reading the history of the
French Revolution and the Napoleonic
period following after it this intense
profound obsession with classical
learning ancient Greece and Rome and
it's much more than symbolic and what
they learned from the study of that
history it led to for example Karl
Marx's theory of class struggle all
right now class struggle today 2019
people might think of a gay pride parade
you know they might think of public
demonstrations with flags and songs and
you know maybe there's some police
brutality maybe there's some tension
maybe there's some news coverage with
nasty words being spoken back and forth
nobody reading this in 2019
has evoked in their mind's eye the image
of what those struggles really were
between patrician and plebeian freedmen
and slaves so I don't mean to insult you
in the audience but I'm gonna make a
follow-up video to this where I give you
block quotations of just how brutal
class war was just how unbelievably
sanguine class struggle really was in
ancient Greece in Rome and it's not just
that we today have documentary evidence
of what it was like when the plebs and
the patricians were at war with each
other in the in the streets of ancient
Rome those accounts were being read by
Karl Marx and all of his contemporaries
they knew they they knew these specific
descriptions of fighting in the streets
of the rich against the poor above class
interest dividing Roman society and they
read about you know the murder of you
know innocent little babies people being
starved and burned alive on fire
unbelievably brutal struggles for who is
to control the destiny of Rome and
various city-states in Greece we don't
just have records from from Athens that
way those accounts those descriptions
they're they're really moving and
they'll give you nightmares and they
really did directly inspire the class
analysis of society that we that we find
in Karl Marx in some ways it's become
more difficult for people to understand
because so few of the people reading
Marx have actually read a for example
Aristotle although Aristotle is not our
only witness to that history now why was
ancient Rome so susceptible to class
analysis why was ancient Rome so
susceptible to this view that society is
divided into distinct class interests
and the class each class in society
pursues its own interest and then I
could repeat all of that with ancient
Athens well both Athens and Rome were
formally and explicitly divided into
social classes
broadly speaking Rome and all of the
Greek city-states there were many there
were many significantly it wasn't just
Athens but broadly speaking something
that had in common was the attempt to
positively motivate the payment of
taxation by allowing you to participate
in government in a different social
class depending on how much you paid in
taxes so I am generalizing here you can
read Aristotle and read about specific
city-states and how they how they
organized these taxes but
stereotypically an ancient Greek or
ancient Italian city-state would say
something like well if you really want
to participate in government if you
really want to have all the rights of a
citizen it's a loaded term unfortunately
if you want to be kind of a first-class
citizen then you have to pay enough in
taxation to provide the government with
two heavily armed soldiers all right now
it differs from city states they say
there's one city-state that specific I
read about where the action tax
requirement to be a kind of first class
citizen was was really low but in others
it might be very significant what it's
like well you know you need to be able
to provide us with one horse and one
fully armed soldier and when they're
going through the documentary evidence
it also seems that in some city-states
it was more literally that you had to
provide like a sword and a shield and a
suit of armor and in some it was well
you just have to pay a certain amount of
money in taxes each year that would be
enough money to buy a suit of armor
something like this so you can imagine
in the ancient world one of the reasons
why this mode of organization was so
important was that there was there was
no surveillance state there was no way
for them to check your bank accounts or
track your credit card the ability of
the state to negatively enforce taxation
the ability of the state to motivate you
to pay your taxes because of the threat
of punishment if you do not that was
that was very weak but if you have a
state set up where you say okay well
there's a special dining hall over here
and you can only eat in that dining hall
if you've paid taxes over a certain
amount to support the war effort or to
support keeping an army even during
peacetime
those sorts of things really positively
motivated conformity and public
political participation so Athens in
Rome and it changes from one period to
the next - we have evidence over many
centuries it changes from city to city
and it changes historically as time goes
by but broadly speaking you tended to
have a very acute awareness of for
instance who was in the top one-fifth of
the income distribution of society who
was in the second fifth who was in the
third fifth in many of these societies
they literally had named groups like
this for different social classes by
quintile or by quartile they would
assign you to a tribe although it's not
tribe in our sense of the word today
based on your income and what part of
the city you set in and then you might
have representation at participating
government on that basis you'd also
participate in the military in a
different way depending on your social
class and your sons would have a
different status in the military
depending on your social class also
based on your neighborhood and your
tribe and this actually created
incredibly tight bonds with society this
is part of why there was so much pride
taken in serving in the military people
would serve in the military and they
would dine with and go to war with
familiar faces that they knew that
wouldn't be serving with strangers
because they would serve with the same
people whom they saw in these kind of
village councils these various semi
democratic forms of representational
government they that they participate in
and many of those also involve just
eating meals together and this kind of
thing so um yes ancient Rome and ancient
Athens you can read some kind of
blood-curdling descriptions some
horrifying descriptions of what those
societies were like when the
relationships between classes broke down
when the patricians were at war with the
plebs and that did happen again and
again it's a colorful history however
it's incredibly misleading to look back
at the history of ancient Roman ancient
Athens as if they were perpetually and
only in a state of class warfare
as if for example there was no class
mobility as if in Athens it was
impossible to be born in the poorer
quintile and work your way up to a to a
more wealthy social stratum and so on
not just issues of social mobility but
also just friendship and intermarriage
and so on that you know these people
live together and work together and of
course if they didn't their society you
know would have collapsed so yeah again
it's easy to kind of remember Rome
entirely in terms of its civil wars it's
easy andaman genuinely I mean Marx was
appealing to a readership who knew that
history who'd read those evocative
passages it was easy for Marx to appeal
to his audience's imagination with this
notion of class struggle because they
knew what it meant to talk about the
Wars of patricians versus plebeians and
it's much more difficult to explain what
the advantages were of that society how
the social class is actually most of the
time lived together in harmony
work together in harmony and had a
somewhat democratic system of
representative and participatory
government even wrong I mean I regard
Rome as much less democratic than
ancient Athens was but nevertheless the
type of representation and participation
that that people had in government that
really mattered to people and it really
motivated them to pay their taxes oh all
government Authority ultimately rests on
your ability to collect taxes and then
spend it on the public's behalf so with
that Edmund said when you're looking at
the start of this text and you're
looking at the end of this text the
overall structure and ideological
function of the argument that Karl Marx
presents here is to pose a problem and
then exaggerate how terrible the problem
ends so that the reader loses interest
in any particular solution so here we're
talking about chapter one part one the
beginning of the text the first
installment the analysis of Congress
manifesto by Karl Marx
but toward the end of the text Mark's
just ridicules any notion of a utopian
model of what the future should be right
so you've read the text before you may
Phegley recall this and keep in mind
someone during Marx's lifetime sitting
down to study this text they could
reasonably expect Marx to to present us
with a utopian model of the future and
Marx might even be expected to you know
give us some kind of plausible
explanation for why it is that his
method his approach is the way to get
from our present society to that future
utopia why it is that he understands
better than some other utopian
philosopher both the problems in our
society and the solutions what should be
done directed by and Marx instead he
kind of upsets the apple cart he
challenges the reader he overthrows that
expedition Joe and he just ridicules the
whole history of prior communists people
who were called communists and sona's
called themselves commies he says oh no
no all these communists in the past with
their utopian thinking they're no better
than Christian fundamentalists they're
no better than you know religious
revolutionaries who promised heaven on
earth who promised you know the kingdom
of God on earth these these crazy
utopian visions you know we're not like
that Marx is presenting himself as some
kind of hard-nosed materialist
down-to-earth revolutionary who laughs
at who scoffs at all notions of utopia
he's not giving you a model of a better
future at all
no he's just presenting you with how
terrible the society are in is the
society you are presently in is
presented as unbelievably terrible he
presents the working class specifically
the industrial proletariat to
specifically
factory workers he presents as just
being chosen by history to be the
solution to that problem and then he
says get out and make revolution so he's
calling for violence here and now
specifically class struggle class war
specifically the type of class struggle
that you see in patrician against
plebeian again these are evocative
images from ancient Rome to some extent
else from ancient Greece that the
readers would have known
he's calling for that kind of violence
on the streets now and he's calling for
it in the absence of any utopia in the
absence of amenity promises made the
reader such as all those other authors
in May he named specific authors as
examples that were supposed to laugh at
as being terribly misguided so that is
the structure and ideological function
of the text so chapter one opens first
with a sort of praise of the bourgeoisie
he states all the amazing
accomplishments of the middle class in
transforming the world bringing about
the demolition of the old feudal society
of the Dark Ages now almost nobody would
bother to criticize this but it should
be pointed out this is basically fiction
we then have a turning point when the
fiction becomes quite a bit more
difficult to bear where he switches from
naming all of the accomplishments and
virtues of the bourgeois class to
describing the bourgeois class as the
vampires of our society so I'll read a
paragraph here from the turning point of
the text this is where he's just getting
into his condemnation of the bourgeoisie
and bourgeois society society as it's
been recreated under Porsche well
leadership the bourgeoisie wherever it
has got the upper hand has put an end to
all feudal patriarchal idyllic relations
it has pitilessly he a torn asunder the
motley feudal ties that bound man to his
quote unquote natural superiors and is
left remaining no other nexus between
man and man than naked his self-interest
then callous cash payment it has drowned
the most heavenly ecstasy's of religious
fervor of chivalrous and enthusiasm of
Philistine sentimentalism in the icy
water of egotistical calculation it is
resolved personal worth into exchange
value and in place of the numberless and
indefeasible charted freedoms has set up
that single unconscionable freedom free
trade in one word for exploitation
veiled by religious and political
religions naked shameless direct brutal
exploitation now again in terms of the
structure of the text the function of
what he's doing here ideologically
what's really important to keep in mind
is he's not just making a case for the
industrial proletariat being a special
class that the the factory workers are a
special group of people which you know
not not totally preposterous um
he's making the case that the industrial
proletariat factory workers represent
the best interests of our whole society
that they are the ones who can and will
destroy the bourgeoisie and the
bourgeoisie are so terrible that they
deserve to be destroyed and that the
world would be a better place when the
factory workers do that this is not
obvious I mean he'll when you think
about it in terms of the burden of
evidence the burden of proof what you'd
have to do to convince me of that
it's considerable um right now I may
dislike the Government of Canada I do I
dislike who's in power in Canada does
that mean I imagine Canada would be
better off if a bunch of potato farmers
potato farmers from Prince Edward Island
kicked all the bourgeois people out of
government kicked out the middle class
people and took over in a coup d'tat
led by potato farmers no I don't think
that would be better if the government
we've got is bad but how be even worse
do I think the government be improved if
a group of factory workers people who
manufacture cars and a car factory no I
don't believe that you'd have to
convince me that that particular coup
d'etat would somehow improve our society
the other big deep change he's trying to
bring about in his readers reception of
the universe is the assumption that
class interest is your only interest
that class struggle is the only struggle
now that is not just rhetoric the point
is and he makes this at some length even
in Chapter 1 here he says at some length
that he thinks for the proletariat for
the factory workers nationalism is dead
party affiliation politics are dead that
the factory workers somehow are so
transformed by the horror of working in
a factory something about being a
factory were so transformed them that
they no longer participate in national
some of any kind no okay what a claim of
course this has never been true and it's
still not true today people can work in
a factory and be conservative in Canada
the vast majority of factory workers are
the vast majority of blue-collar
working-class people in Canada are
conservative um you can work in a
factory and be a nationalist people can
work in a factory and intensely hate the
French or hate the Spanish local
rivalries within Europe and so on um
yeah so it's quite a bit deeper than
just stereotyping he's trying to create
the illusion which again ultimately is
inspired by and comes out of the study
of ancient Greece and Rome it comes out
of nothing else it does not come out of
Hegel it does not come out of the study
of the history of China or India all of
which Karl Marx dabbled in the mature
Marx is not derivative of Hegel look at
Marx's youngest writings okay there's a
little bit of influence he's imitating
Hegel a little bit here and there it's
nothing of the kind is going on here but
the idea that class interest is your
only interest and then you give up all
fealty to particular Kings particular
religions the idea that history of the
industrial proletariat the idea that
factory workers are nihilists that
they've lost any sense of attachment to
the Catholic Church or the Protestant
Church it was completely untrue when
Karl Marx is alive it's still completely
untrue today so inviting the reader to
imagine the industrial proletariat as a
wrecking ball that is doomed and
determined to smash into and destroy
bourgeois society yes on the one hand
we're supposed to imagine that because
we are first told that the bourgeois
class itself was a wrecking ball that
destroyed the aristocracy that destroyed
the Society of the Middle Ages or even
of the of the Renaissance period and now
of course that's also untrue and that's
completely fictional it's a ridiculous
reading of the history of Europe and
it's also ridiculous reading in terms of
the personalities and political
motivations of who the bourgeois class
are the bourgeois class have not in fact
reduced everything to mere dollars and
since the bourgeois class remained
powerfully attached to nationalism
religion various political interests of
their of their time in place but the
bourgeois class is interpret and
presented here only in terms of their
class interest and the the working class
then likewise now again in ancient
Greece in ancient Rome class interest
was very highly mobilized because that
was how their government worked that was
how their form of public religion even
worked and that was how their tax
collection worked and the societies we
live in both now and in Karl Marx's time
the comparison to two ancient Greece and
Rome is very weak and of course we also
are not a slave Society so there are
many significant differences I just
mentioned there was time my life when I
did a lot of research on history
politics and Society of India one of the
misconceptions of the history of India
is that many many Europeans many
Americans and Europeans when they read
the history of India they assume that
each caste within the caste system so a
caste is similar to a social class I'm
not gonna get into the differences but
each each social class so to speak in
India that they were naturally allied to
the other members of their social class
and enemies of the other social classes
and what you have to understand working
through documentary evidence and
historical evidence that's really not
true on the contrary the way social
class is organized in India you'd have a
situation where members of the same
group all had the same profession and
they were very much in competition with
one another whereas by and large their
allies and colleagues would be people
from other social classes so even if
it's just something as simple as you
okay this is kind of a bad example
all right you owned a factory in ancient
India that bought up rice and sugar and
transformed it into sugar candies like
our jujubes
you know mushed up rice and sugar you
add some coloring and juice make new
candy that's already attested in ancient
India
in the Pala canon and the ancient
buddhist scriptures so guys candy candy
making in India has been around for
3,000 years okay so that's a real
ancient so there is actually a very
powerful social tendency whereby the
candy maker will be friends with the
rice farmers and will be friends with
whoever he buys sweetener from it's you
know this ancient India so it's not
gonna be sugar cane maybe will be sure
for they're gonna get the the sugar and
the endo and the rice from and so on
those people they tend to be colleagues
with whereas their rival candy makers
even though they're members of the same
caste that's a much more difficult
situation so in the same way in Marx's
time you know the assumption that
middle-class businessmen that bourgeois
businessman have a solidarity of
business money that they don't regard
one another as competition that they
don't hate and divide one another and
have you know sneering rivalries with
one another or something or vendetta's
against it one another that there isn't
warfare within one class as opposed to
warfare between social classes
that's another profoundly false
assumption and again it's it's maybe
easier to be deceived with a sort of
thing if you're thinking about a far-off
distant romanticized foreign culture
where there's a barrier of language and
culture and so on within our own culture
you know I think we all implicitly
understand that that the owner of one a
television network may really not feel a
sense of class solidarity with the owner
of another television network their
comfort their competitors they may
despise each other so on and so forth so
there's there's really no reason to
assume that class rivalry is between
classes instead of within classes
because there are many many problems
that are implicit within the text but
obvious to my eyes in 2019 okay so we
then get a whole series of complaints
about the bourgeoisie that are simply
factually false firstly the boy were
quote the bourgeoisie cannot exist
without constantly revolutionising the
instruments of production and thereby
the relations of production and with
them the whole of society nope
just a false claim no you can have a
Porsche or middle-class in an
economically stagnant society if you
were living through the Industrial
Revolution maybe you would believe as
Marx did that the Industrial Revolution
was just gonna keep on revolutionising
Society at the same pace but nope you
know I mean we invented the toilet into
an amazing extent the toilet and
plumbing just didn't change we invented
electricity yeah we do more creative
things with electricity but I mean it's
not the case that technological change
and the transformation of society
continued to be a via fundamental
technologies like the toilet and
plumbing and train tracks and trains to
a shocking extent there was this early
period of innovation where those things
were new and then in many many ways for
centuries they fundamentally didn't
change so no I mean this is also kind of
hilarious because we think about it Marx
is presenting the bourgeoisie to the
reader as if the bourgeoisie represent
constant radical revolutionary change
and we we don't regard in that way even
if you're a left-wing or even if you're
a socialist or communist you associate
the bourgeoisie with status quo
conservative values right with keeping
things the same so there's a problem
here no these claims the bourgeoisie
they were bringing about this revolution
and they're they're just gonna keep on
doing it they're gonna keep on radically
transforming the society with this
unbelievable economic and technological
progress nope
you know we invented the stock exchange
and you know adding computers to the
stock exchange really didn't change it
very much terms the fundamental function
of the stock exchange the bank the way
banking works the way the various
elements of capitalist society work the
way even elections work and democracy
works it's shocking how little those
things have changed after a brief period
of innovation surrounding the Industrial
Revolution
okay so again one of the common
delusions that communists and far left
wingers have that I've made other videos
talking about so number two he claims
quote the need for a constantly
expanding market for its product
products chases the bourgeoisie
everywhere all over the globe
close quote the idea here that
capitalism requires infant
growth and constant growth it's just
false you can have an economically
stagnant society and that society will
be better off with a capitalist
free-market system than with a feudal
system or with a communist centralized
command economy so no and there are
examples of countries like Japan that
had long periods of economic stagnation
or even economic contraction and
capitalism worked just fine in the
middle-class work just fine soon and so
forth all right sorry there were more
comments here about how you lose your
sense of national self-interest because
of this overweening class self-interest
class antagonism I think I've already
talked about that enough right then we
the next big turning point in the text
is when he tries to convince us that
working in a factory is slavery here
let's let's let's quote this quote
modern industry has converted the little
workshop of the patriarch of the
patriarchal master into the great
factory of the industrial capitalist
masses of laborers crowded into the
factory are organized like soldiers as
privates of the industrial army they are
placed under the command of a perfect
hierarchy of officers and sergeants not
only are they slaves of the bourgeois
class
I repeat slaves of the bourgeois class
and of the bourgeois state they are
daily and hourly enslaved by the Machine
by the overlooker and above all by the
individual bourgeois manufacture himself
the more openly this despotism proclaims
gain to be its end and aim the more
petty the more hateful and the more
embittering it is so this is the idea I
mean he flirts with this also in des
Capital from a somewhat different angle
that somehow working in a factory is the
most terrible fate imaginable compared
to interestingly the bucolic conditions
he imagines for workers in a feudal
pre-industrial pre capitalist society
it's just false even today 2019 levels
of Technology is it worse to be a small
shop self-employed Baker or to work in
large scale bread factory where you do
shift work that you work for ten hours
at a machine you know in a bread factory
believe me I've looked into this I went
to baking college and got kicked out or
dropped out long story
um well you know I studied to be a baker
for a significant length of time at many
of the baking factories you literally
work just one machine at one station so
you know you may just unload the dough
mixer you may just use the machine that
divides the dough into separate small
buns and you do that again and again for
eight hours and that's it then you clean
the machine at the end of the day you
wipe down the machine so you know your
labor may be more repetitive and more
regular and in a sense less creative but
there's not a lot of creativity in
baking anyway but the whole factory
operates at a much higher level of
productivity than the artisanal small
shop Baker so everyone can get paid
better everyone can get better benefits
and of course you get to show up with
absolutely no stress on your mind
you work your hours you clock any clock
out the life of an industrial worker
again it's highly paid um it's rewarding
and you don't have any of the worries of
a small entrepreneur who owns his own
bakery even if you don't in a bakery if
you're just an independent working Baker
well now you have no boss
you have no clock you maybe don't work
with enormous machines like an owners
robotic you know that's the type of
horrible situation he's describing huge
steel machines that divide the buns for
you okay
the nave that'll wake up every day
you've got to buy your own ingredients
you've got to worry about how much
you're buying how much you're making how
much you're gonna sell it for now you're
you are your own boss you're not
oppressed by anybody there's a lot more
stress and a lot more misery in your
life you don't have a team of people
working together you don't have these
machines that improve your your
efficiency it's a very tough job being
an independent artisanal Baker in many
ways is hell on earth compared to
working in the factory now everyone
knows this who lives in Detroit or
something
working in a car Factory is a good job
the reason why people left behind
literally left behind life on the farm
in more fetal conditions to move to the
city to work in factories was indeed
that work in those factories offered
them a better life
and that is still true today of course
there have been struggles there have
been struggles you know especially about
things like injury and employer and
accountability when someone loses a
finger in a machine but guess what
working on the farm working in a more
futile setting if you imagine if you
imagine those problems were only in in
factories you know you're wrong
so know with all admin said this is
perhaps more false today than it was
during Marx's own time but this
ultimately you know is relying on a very
dishonest fable about how terrible
factory work is rather than any kind of
sincere problem-solving mentality and
looking at hey what our factories how
are they transformer Society and what
should we do to improve conditions for
workers which indeed is going to include
all kinds of petty little laws including
things like lawsuits so that employees
can sue their employer if they lose a
factory in a machine if they lose a
finger
working at a machine in a factory this
kind of thing
step by step those things really did
transform the the lot of the industrial
proletariat in Europe in America and
around the world so this section I feel
closes my last comment for this chapter
of the book today it closes again by
trying to proclaim the class interest
takes over all of their interests and
explains to us that the industrial
proletariat are this so-called universal
class now that they represent the
interests of society as a hold of the
new class to take over Society so in
that's capital Marx's longer work you
see the total delusion Marx has that the
vast majority of people in society in
the future are going to be employed in
factories he's completely wrong in
reality he was living through a period
of time especially when he was in
England he's at when he's in London
England he's living through a brief
period of time when an extraordinarily
high percentage to population are
employed in factories due to unnatural
economic conditions traded by the
British Empire long story
Google around do you think in the city
you live in right now whoever you are
watching today do you think that even
15% of the population is employed in
factories where you live it's very
likely wherever you live in the world
that even 15% of people are employed in
factories but Marx had the delusion that
the Industrial Workers the industrial
proletariat factory workers specifically
we're going to just take over all of
society so to give an example from des
Capital that illustrates this what he
talks about all school children having
factory jobs in the future that in the
future
school children were going to be able to
achieve financial independence from
their parents by going part-time to work
in a factory and part-time to take their
lessons in school later it's like there
are not enough factory jobs to have this
much child labour it's just ridiculous I
mean it's like someone telling you in
the future everyone's gonna be a medical
doctor
it's a highly specialized trade that
influences just one part of society and
it is a small minority of our society
that's employed in factories and that's
true
even in China China right now is going
through a brief boom period with of a
huge amount of factory labor but you
know a lot of the factories that are now
in China are gonna close down and leave
China some of them are going to move to
Vietnam some of them we're gonna move to
India so on and so forth some of them
are gonna move to Africa that's already
happened interestingly North Africa has
a bunch of bunch of shoe factories
recently relocated from China to Africa
that can happen - okay but nevertheless
worldwide and city-by-city marx is just
completely factually wrong with his
claim both numerically that the factory
laborers are going to become this huge
class representing the whole of society
and feature study and he's also wrong
qualitatively because if you actually
believe in this view of society that
people are our peoples minds are so
completely taken over by class interest
that they no longer care about
nationalism or religion or any other
sentimental political attachment if
that's what you believe then necessarily
all the other social classes are going
to be the enemies of the industrial
proletariat and the industrial
proletariat were then and would
mein really a kind of minor social class
a minor political movement of no
particular significance so it doesn't
make sense on many different levels okay
guys so close this video by just saying
not for the first time this week the
most important thing in philosophy is to
have a helpful problem-solving attitude
and why is that philosophy like politics
is fundamentally about problem-solving I
would go so far as to say philosophy is
politics directed towards problems that
one person tries to solve alone in
isolation
whereas in politics we take very much
the same problem-solving tool kit but
directed towards problems that we try to
cap tackle in groups of people or in
aggregate or large societies as a whole
philosophy may be more privately
reflective in character whereas politics
is more publicly reflective in character
but nevertheless these are
problem-solving methods and Marx is
wrong precisely in that he does not have
a problem-solving attitude looking at
history looking at politics looking at
economics he instead uses this method of
just trying to exaggerate the nature of
the problem exacerbate dramatize the
nature of the problem to the point where
the reader is willing to make an
ideological commitment to being part of
the solution and he presents that
solution as a violent class struggle